1.	Gather evidence to identify what your personal values are. The reflection gets you to examine and identify who you are at this point,
this involves a self-evaluation and seeking feedback from two or three trusted friends, family, whanau, colleagues. This allows you to
compare how you see yourself, with how others see you.

So, I starting to write this answer turned into a 1-page essay. But, to keep it simple, I would say my values are:
Honesty, Consideration for others, reliability, fairness, resilience, determination, tolerance.
If you analyse all these beliefs on face value there can be points of contention. So, each has a value to me, that
I personally believe hold value, but existentially considering them from many perspectives can break down their
reasoning to a point where they no longer represent what they mean to me. What I really mean to say is, each of us
is likely to have our own interpretation on what each of these truly mean.

Gather evidence to identify your strengths and areas for development. Evidence might include: personality or
skills/capability assessment tools like Myers Briggs, Strengthsfinder; DOPE; Capability Sort; Minded; task 1 examples.

https://richardstep.com/dope-test/dope-results-short.php

You're Test Taker #: 777,856

Your Score: Dove (35%)

You are the Harmony Seeker and have:
-- Low Assertiveness
-- High Emotionality

Your type's description is:

People-oriented, loyal, friendly, hard working and a great team player but tends to avoid change, confrontation, risk-taking, and assertiveness..

Here's how you scored on the other types:
•	Eagle (30%)
•	Owl (25%)
•	Peacock (10%)

YOUR HIGH 5 - https://high5test.com/test/main-test-result/
SHARE RESULTS |
PROBLEM SOLVER
TIME KEEPER
CATALYST
DELIVERER
EMPATHIZER

myers briggs = ENTJ-A COMMANDER PERSONALITY (ENTJ, -A/-T) - should be noted although this is my given personality trait " commander" is probably
a title I would not like to represent me, and something should be said of that.

MIND 54% EXTRAVERTED vs INTROVERTED 46%
ENERGY 51% INTUITIVE vs OBSERVANT 49%
NATURE 53% THINKING vs FEELING 47%
TACTICS 56% JUDGING vs PROSPECTING 44%
IDENTITY 53% ASSERTIVE VS TURBULENT 47%

Your time is limited, so don’t waste it living someone else’s life. Don’t be trapped by dogma — which is living with the results of other people’s
thinking. Don’t let the noise of others’ opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and
intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.

Steve Jobs
Commanders are natural-born leaders. People with this personality type embody the gifts of charisma and confidence, and project authority in a way
that draws crowds together behind a common goal. However, Commanders are also characterized by an often ruthless level of rationality, using their
drive, determination and sharp minds to achieve whatever end they’ve set for themselves. Perhaps it is best that they make up only three percent
of the population, lest they overwhelm the more timid and sensitive personality types that make up much of the rest of the world – but we have
Commanders to thank for many of the businesses and institutions we take for granted every day.

Happiness Lies in the Joy of Achievement
If there’s anything Commanders love, it’s a good challenge, big or small, and they firmly believe that given enough time and resources, they can
achieve any goal. This quality makes people with the Commander personality type brilliant entrepreneurs, and their ability to think strategically
and hold a long-term focus while executing each step of their plans with determination and precision makes them powerful business leaders. This
determination is often a self-fulfilling prophecy, as Commanders push their goals through with sheer willpower where others might give up and move
on, and their Extraverted (E) nature means they are likely to push everyone else right along with them, achieving spectacular results in the process.

Commander (ENTJ) personality
At the negotiating table, be it in a corporate environment or buying a car, Commanders are dominant, relentless, and unforgiving. This isn’t because
they are coldhearted or vicious per se – it’s more that Commander personalities genuinely enjoy the challenge, the battle of wits, the repartee that
comes from this environment, and if the other side can’t keep up, that’s no reason for Commanders to fold on their own core tenet of ultimate victory.

The underlying thought running through the Commander mind might be something like "I don’t care if you call me an insensitive b*****d, as long as I
remain an efficient b*****d".
If there’s anyone Commanders respect, it’s someone who is able to stand up to them intellectually, who is able to act with a precision and quality
equal to their own. Commander personalities have a particular skill in recognizing the talents of others, and this helps in both their team-building
efforts (since no one, no matter how brilliant, can do everything alone), and to keep Commanders from displaying too much arrogance and condescension.
However, they also have a particular skill in calling out others’ failures with a chilling degree of insensitivity, and this is where Commanders
really start to run into trouble.

Cultivating the Science of Human Relationships
Emotional expression isn’t the strong suit of any Analyst type, but Commanders’ distance from their emotions is especially public, and felt directly
by a much broader swath of people. Especially in a professional environment, Commanders will simply crush the sensitivities of those they view as
inefficient, incompetent or lazy. To people with the Commander personality type, emotional displays are displays of weakness, and it’s easy to make
enemies with this approach – Commanders will do well to remember that they absolutely depend on having a functioning team, not just to achieve their
goals, but for their validation and feedback as well, something Commanders are, curiously, very sensitive to.

Commanders are true powerhouses, and they cultivate an image of being larger than life – and often enough they are. They need to remember though,
that their stature comes not just from their own actions, but from the actions of the team that props them up, and that it’s important to recognize
the contributions, talents and needs, especially from an emotional perspective, of their support network. Even if they have to adopt a "fake it
‘til you make it" mentality, if Commanders are able to combine an emotionally healthy focus alongside their many strengths, they will be rewarded
with deep, satisfying relationships and all the challenging victories they can handle.

Document it

1. Using the evidence gathered, describe your core personal values.

Explain a situation where you have had an ethical decision to make. Discuss how you weighed up the values involved in that decision, the decision
you made and the consequences of the action you took.

there was a situation at work where a employee was accused of bullying. I saw the list of complaints. many of which I knew to be lies, but not
all (as I was not there to see them all, but some I did see and these definitely did not happen in the manner explained. Its was a complicated
situation as it involved additional complaints of racism. I knew that many of the complaints were embellished or lies. some of which involved
assault and other misdemeanours. I felt that the motivation was to remove this individual so that the plaintiff would attain a large promotion
(which was the case). my action was to state my side of the story, which was to clarify what I saw in relation to misdemeanours for what they
truly where. I didn't speak out against many aspects of the complaints that did not know. but urged them to consider that, considering many
of the complaints were embellished and or lies that this should be factored into their decision. It did not sit well with me that this person
was lying about such a serious situation (a persons lively hood). I exposed myself by speaking out. the result was the worker was dismissed for
bullying and racism and yes the guy got the 30k promotion. I didn't like the dishonest behaviour. the job in question was extremely reliant on
honesty and integrity, which this person displayed they had none. It concerned me that management had such poor judgement in regard to promoting
a person to a position of responsibility over others, handling and maintaining records of explosives.

Describe how your culture has influenced your values and identity

Western culture is my ultimate influencer, I was brought up on Christian values, though I do not consider myself religious. they likely imprinted
a certain level of values and beliefs in me. I would say a key saying from this value base would be "do unto others, as you would have them do
unto you". This likely reflects who I am, I treat others as I would like to be treated. I try to be good to others and show everybody
the respect they deserve. I think manners are important, everyone deserves a chance to be themselves.  I'm a New Zealander which, I think holds
its own culture. The words I think of is friendly, relaxed, fun, tidy. Hopefully, I embody these assumption of NZ culture.

Using the evidence gathered, describe your strengths and limitations.

Explain a situation where you have had an ethical decision to make. Discuss how you weighed up the values involved in that decision, the decision
you made and the consequences of the action you took.

as above really. I felt I acted well despite the outcome. I stood up for the truth. Which I think is important in an environment like that.

Describe how your culture has influenced your values and identity.
a strengths and limitations in this regard, would like be that having cultural values can often conflict with other cultural values. something sacred to one may not be to another etc.

Evaluate your strengths and limitations in terms of your learning and career development
currently my career development is low, which would make this a weakness. Also creating elements of doubt. I have discontinued one career to pursue another I have recently been focusing on education.
my learning skill have increased heavily since I start university, however I'm concerned I may not have retained everything I would like.

Identify which of your strengths might help you in your learning journey and how they might intersect with learning obstacles.
I feel I have a problem solving mind, apparently the personality tests agree. so that is likely to help me in the process of solving most of the obstacles

Share an example from your experience of where you were trying to work productively with others, but there was resistance or tension. Discuss
the strategies you used at that time, how effective they were, and your reflections on what other strategies you would try now, and why.

During my Uni studies, I encountered students in group work who did not have either the ability or the willingness to complete the task. The reason I as ability is that they did not have sufficient
English skills (yet) to complete the task at hand. It was very difficult to remain positive, when the work was presented to me, it was plagiarised. I became leader of the group, mainly because I seamed 
to be the most motivated to complete the task and attain good grades. I tried very hard to be patient and inclusive, to have everyone contribute etc. Mainly due to the fact I had just completed a
course called leadership and teamwork... using these techniques sounds good, but i noticed there was a couple factors missing that are needed to make things work. motivation and authority. In our group,
one person just did not attend at all and contributed no work till the last minute which was all copy pasted from the internet, another found three or so sources of work from the internet put them
together and handed that in, and finally, another did decent work but really was not up to University standards. eventually it got to a point of removing one person from the group, another was asked
regularly to fix there work up and eventually the bulk of the work was rewritten by myself and another member of the group.

I felt that being patient, inclusive, caring and understanding can only go so far before tough words need to be said, if the some team members have not intention of actually doing the right thing.
If someone simple does not want to do something you just cant make them do it. only when i got tough did one in particular get the job done. I don't like being the bad guy and I don't appreciate people
through their own selfishness pressuring me to solve their own issues for the greater good of the team. I feel sometimes having principles only makes you more manipulable.

What was it like trying to summarise yourself to a group of strangers? Could you feel your ego? Were you self conscious?
was tough, the questions leave much to be explored. I ended up writing a very long analysis which grew off topic. Ego, I'm often more critical of myself than many others, so I feel odd if I say anything
resembling self-praise, we should not feel bad about our strengths, however, we must be aware of the blindness that can come from not considering the negative repercussions of our strengths. I naturally
resist being self serving or self praising in group environments as people don't respond well to this kind of behaviour as it resembles arrogance. Its better to be honest about your faults and round down
your strengths, until a rapport has been earned between the people you are with.

Add, stage and commit. Remember to make your commit messages meaningful!
